---
layout: post
categories: course
title: "Neural Network Design Patterns in Computer Vision"
---

Abstract:
Computer Vision has been considering various models of neural networks, originally invented in the
Machine Learning community, in the last years. These models have been very successfully applied to
visual tasks such as motion analysis, object tracking, SLAM, object segmentation, object classification,
object detection and scene understanding.
The aim of this seminar is to give the student the opportunity to choose and then study a particular model
and its applications in computer vision. By the end of the seminar, all attendees will understand the
principles and the applications of these selected models, and they will receive the ability to reuse these
models as common design patterns in their own models and applications.

Schedule:
During this course, the attendees will collect together a pool of successful models (whole neural network) or
network parts (sub-network, network layer). After an individual choice, each student will read the respective
paper publication with the aim to search and study related papers of application. Based on the findings, the
student will then work out a short presentation (15 minutes) which will be given to the group. What then follows
is a 15 minutes group discussion of the presentation and feedback to the student with the aim to learn
collaboratively about the model and the findings. During this time period of the seminar, we will use hybrid
social learning tools (Miro, Zoom, Mentimeter) to make presence in the seminar as valuable and flexible as
possible for the attendees. After the presentations, the student will individually work out his findings including
the feedback in written form, i.e. text, images, videos. At the end of the seminar, all these contributions are
collected by the attendees into a final seminar (group) report.

Pre-course meeting	03.07.2023	4pm - 5pm (in presence, Raum 03.13.010)
Kick-off meeting	18.10.2023	4pm - 5pm (in presence)
Task	1: Collect patterns (initial papers). (using Miro)
Paper selection meeting	08.11.2023	4pm - 5pm (in presence)
Task 2: Study papers, work out presentation (supported by individual, virtual meetings using Zoom)
Presentation and discussion groups (in blocks, in presence)	12.12.2023 - 14.12.2023	9am - 12am (in presence)
Task 3: Work out contribution to seminar report (supported by individual, virtual meetings using Zoom)
Final meeting	29.01.2024	3pm - 4pm (in presence or virtual)
